So welcome back, everybody.
We are now moving on to
the subject of prototyping.
Prototyping is absolutely essential
to the product design process.
And so I wanna really dive into that and
look at it in this session.
But I will say that Steve has done an
excellent course that is a deep dive into
Figma and how developers can use Figma and
kind of teaching developers that.
So you might wanna check that out
as well cuz it's very relevant and
I'm not gonna get into
the logistics of how Figma works.
Cuz of course Figma is not the only
tool for doing prototyping,
there are lots of options available to us.
So let's start off by talking
about the role of prototyping and
how it fits into
the product design process.
And that begins by answering the question,
well,
why do we even bother with prototyping?
And by prototyping, I'm talking about
doing stuff that isn't in code.
You can almost prototype in code and I
used to do that a lot more than I do now,
actually just build things out
in code quickly and easily and
now I think there's a place for that, but
we're not gonna get into that right now.
So why do we prototype?
Well, we can test is the big one.
Prototype provides us something tangible
that we can put in front of users and
gain feedback, but also reduces risk.
And this can be a big selling point
internally within organizations,
especially if you work for
larger organizations that
are often very risk adverse.
Saying, look, if we create a prototype and
we test that prototype, then we can
potentially avoid costly mistakes
further down the development process.
Because for developers to change things
at a later date is a lot more time
consuming and a lot more expensive,
because developers cost a lot more than
designers cuz they're just more
talented and it's what I've heard.
I don't know if anybody
else has heard that.
Yeah, so already a question
>> Only Figma prototyping, is that enough?
What about HTML prototyping?
>> Well, this is what I'm saying,
yeah, that no,
not just Figma prototyping at all.
Figma is just one of the tools that
are available for us to prototype and
I'll explore a load others.
The one that I'm not exploring
is HTML prototyping, but
I've got nothing against HTML prototyping.
In fact, I used to do a lot of HTML
prototyping, and I would argue that is yet
another reason why it's good for
designers generally to know how to do some
basic HTML, and CSS because it means
they can build out things in HTML.
And actually, it used to be
quite a preference of mine to
prototype in HTML because none of
the other prototyping tools of
the time really supported
responsive design very well.
Now it's a lot better, of course,
cuz Figma has got responsive
design built into it.
Although, interestingly,
most designers don't use it to its
full potential in Figma, right?
They still have a desktop version and
a mobile version.
And that doesn't really make use of a lot
of the power of prototyping in Figma, but
we'll come on to that in a minute.
Yes, yeah, you first
>> Yeah, I just wanted to share a story
about prototyping that did
not use like a UI type.
>> Yeah.
>> Showcase, but as you may or
may not know, connecting to bots or
AI is a two-way communication.
It's not a typical HTTP put go get post.
So it's two-way, and you have to do pings
and pongs, make sure it's always up and
running.
So I had to do a prototype to
make that connection to a bot.
>> Yeah.
>> And propose that solution to
cybersecurity to make sure nothing
was interjecting in between that,
>> Yeah.
>> Particular communication.
So prototyping sometimes doesn't,
I think you're alluding to,
doesn't always have to have like Figma for
an Adobe XD.
>> Absolutely no, and I think there's
kind of product design prototyping but
there's also a development prototyping or
proof of concepts and that kinda thing.
Which are really important because
to make something work at scale and
with all the security and stuff like that,
well, before you spend all the time doing
that and that complexity, let's make sure
the fundamental thing can work first.
So yeah, there's absolutely a role for
it there as well.
You were gonna ask a question.
>> I was just curious what changed for
you.
>> Really improvements in the software.
So once Figma started supporting
pretty much fully responsive design,
then it made more, it was quicker for
me to do it in Figma than it was in HTML.
Also, I'll be honest,
I suspect it also correlated with the
slowly declining coding skills on my part.
I was quicker in Figma than I was in HTML.
But I mean, I'm a great fan of ways,
if you are good with HTML and CSS,
it makes sense to prototype in the medium
that you're gonna be building in.
So there's a lot of value in HTML
prototyping, a lot of value in it.
So yeah, so the second reason to do
prototyping is reducing risk, but
the third is communication.
A prototype is a very powerful tool in
helping us communicate better with our
colleagues and making sure everybody is in
agreement about what we're producing, etc.
So what are different types
of prototyping are there?
I mean, we've just literally been
saying that we could use HTML,
which I haven't gotten the list,
which is really annoying me now.
I wish I'd put HTML on the list,
but I haven't, I apologize.
So there's basically kinda two types.
There's low fidelity, so
things like paper prototyping,
grayscale prototyping, that kind of stuff.
And then there's high fidelity,
which are clickable prototypes or
fully interactive prototypes.
Well, not necessarily fully interactive,
but more interactive.
So broadly speaking,
that's kind of how I split it.
I guess you could claim that HTML
prototypes counts as a type of interactive
before clickable prototype, so
I did put it in there even if I
didn't realize it at the time.